did you know just by sitting at your
computer
you take 12 to 15 breaths per minute
this thanks to the world's most powerful
sponges keeping you alive
i'm talking about your lungs at room
temperature you inhale about 25
sextillion molecules with just one
breath
as 25 followed by 21 zeros
let's see what it's like i'll shrink
myself into mikey the molecule and take
you on a journey
inside my friend here okay
remind me not to do that again right
after lunch here we are
now you can see the dust particles and
germs floating around
are you ready to go into the lungs i can
enter through the nose or the mouth
let's take the more complicated path
we'll go through the nostrils
whoa a field of hair the follicles
inside your nose are as close to each
other as the ones on your head
the nose hairs act as security guards
they stop
dust dirt germs and other particles from
getting
into the lungs see that shiny stuff on
the edges of the hairs
it's a thin coating of mucus
yep its job is to keep the lining of the
nose moist
and trap debris that builds up on the
hairs it's kind of like a nursery for
boogers
further inside the nose you have even
tinier hairs
those are called the cilia and you can
only see them with a microscope
their job is to move mucus and other
small particles out of the airway
ah finally some room this is the naval
academy
no wait that's nasal cavity its job is
to moisturize
warm and filter the air before it
reaches the lungs
in here you also have three things
called turbinate on each side
they look like hot dogs and they too
warm up and humidify the air you breathe
and filter particles i'll squeeze
through these and go
further this downward slide is the
throat
or pharynx let's move down to the
larynx now you see that other slide
heading in the other direction
that's where your food goes at the top
of the larynx
you have a flap shaped like a leaf
that's the epiglottis
it shuts every time you swallow to
prevent food from getting into your
lawns
can you see that triangle-shaped opening
those are your vocal cords
they vibrate every time you speak and
allow different strength and amounts of
air to pass through
now we're heading through the windpipe
it's as long as two
golf tees placed on top of each other
but as narrow as the diameter of a
quarter
those bumpy rings that look like tunnels
are made of cartilage
it's a strong flexible tissue that
supports the windpipe
anyway when you breathe the windpipe
lengthens
and widens like a balloon when you
exhale it goes back to its regular size
the windpipe now divides into two
smaller tubes
the bronchi one bronchus goes right
and the other goes left oh look the
lungs
let's see what they look like on the
outside they have a pinkish color
and they're made of soft elastic and
spongy tissue
each of your lungs is inside a sack of
tissue and it's attached to it by a thin
layer of liquid kind of like runny glue
the sac creates a smooth surface to
allow your lungs to expand
every time you breathe your lungs have a
different size and shape too
the right lung is shorter than the left
because it needs to make room for your
liver
but it's also broader than your left
lung
on the right you have three lobes the
upper middle and lower ones
on your left you have only the upper and
lower ones
there's a notch in your left lung that's
where your heart peeks through
hello there shy huh
right below your lungs there's a giant
muscle the diaphragm
it acts as a resting spot for your lungs
and heart
around your lungs you have ribs those
act as protectors
the enclosed room your lungs live in is
called the thorax
now let's head inside to see what's
going on
the spot where the bronchus begins to
enter the lung is called the helium
and once they get in they divide even
further into the lobes
it's like being inside a tree trunk that
divides into millions of smaller
branches
oh wait a sec what's happening here the
diaphragm is expanding
are we getting kicked out oh we're safe
now let's take a closer look at the tiny
branches
hold me closer tiny branches
okay this is where we're going they get
so tiny
that we can call them bronchioles
they're smaller than a grain of sand
and at the tips of these branches we got
a collection of balloons
their official name is the alveolar sax
not to be confused with the alto sax
at the tips of those sacks the
individual balloons are called the
alveoli
that's where the gas exchange happens
let's go inside to see what's going on
the chamber has a membrane on the
outside some
epithelial cells and on the inside it
has some liquid
now up until this point i have been
floating in the air
but now i'm getting my feet wet the
balloon chambers are surrounded by tiny
blood vessels called the capillaries
they have very thin walls to allow
oxygen molecules to squeeze through
do you see those tiny blue spots
floating in and out of the capillaries
that is carbon dioxide it travels freely
back to the lungs the same way we came
in
oh by the way you'll recall that the
capillaries and montagues
didn't get along very well in romeo and
juliet true
now that we've passed some tissue cells
protein and finally plasma
we need to find transportation inside
the capillary blood vessel
there's a huge bus it's called a red
blood cell
and it's packed with iron almost 70
percent of the iron in your body
is in the red blood cells it also has
270 million compartments
those are called the hemoglobin protein
molecules and each of them
has four seats for four oxygen molecules
once everybody gets on board we're going
for the biggest ride
ever now we're traveling through the
cardiovascular network
a ginormous collection of blood vessels
that reach every cell in the body
if we were to stretch all the blood
vessels end to end into a straight line
they could circle the earth more than
two times
do you hear that powerful pumping noise
that's your heart
it's the engine that pushes the oxygen
throughout the body
and where it needs to go but you don't
get all the oxygen you need from your
lungs
the upper layer of your skin cells and
the cells in the front surface of your
eyes
get most of the oxygen from the air
[Music]
now we're traveling to the heart and
then the largest artery in the body
it's called the aorta and it's sorta
like a giant root that expands
throughout the body to generate
smaller roots then the oxygen goes to
the smallest arteries
and it travels to the muscles that's
where we get off
the bus allows us to detach from the
seats and head over to the muscle cells
and what do we do from now on well
that's another video bye-bye